Glossary of Assembly Terms

ASAP	A term that refers to a user definable token 
TI	Texas Instruments - Company that created all the TI-8x and TI-92 
	calcs. Their web site is at www.ti.com 
TI-86	A cool calculator with 128K of RAM, Nice LCD screen, improved 
	Keypad layout, and more. 
BIT	A binary unit containing 0 or 1 
BYTE	A unit of measurement in computers that typically contains 8-bits. 
Nibble	A unit of measure in computers that typically contains 4-bits, 
	or one hex digit 
Hex	A base 16 numbering system, where each digit has a range of: 
	1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,A,B,C,D,E,F (read my first tutorial) 
Binary	A base 2 numbering system where each digit contains 0 or 1. This 
	is represented by ON or OFF, TRUE or FALSE, etc, and is the key 
	ingredient to all digital computers. (Read my first tutorial) 
Token	The numerical representation of an OS command / function, or the 
	command / function itself 
Tokenize	to change the string representation of a command or function 
	to a numerical representation. 
User Defined Tokens	A token which can be programmed into the calculator 
Function Token	Reads parameter(s) and returns a value to the EOS, or 
	modifies handling; types of functions: unary (ex: cos), immediate 
	unary (ex: >mile), binary (ex: +), function w/ multiple arguments 
	(ex: Line), function w/ no arguments (ex: rand) 
Command Token	Modifies some aspect of the calculator's handling; has no 
	numerical value (ex: AxesOff) 
Parser	Calculator utility which tokenizes and then evalutes tokens 
asap	A customizeable RAM location to house user defined tokens 
EOS (Equation Operating System)	Handles the calculator's function hierarchy 
Hierarchy	The order of token evaluation (ex: * takes priority over +) 
Interrupt	In the TI-86, A interrupt is an action occuring in that causes 
	a calculator to stop what it is doing to perform another action. 
	The default interrupt mode is called IM 1. When IM 1 occurs, 200 
	times a second, the calculator will jump to 38h. 
MODE 0	This mode gets the data from the data bus and thus isnt used for 
	TI programming. 
MODE 1	Default Interrupt Response Mode, when this interrupt occurs (200 
	times/second on the TI-86), the calculator performs a restart (rst) 
	to location 38h. 
MODE 2	Mode 2 interrupt response mode is an interrupt that will jump to a 
	table in memory to form a 16-bit address from that table. It will 
	then use that 16-bit value gotten from the table to jump there. 
LCD	Liquid Crystal Display, the basic display screen on the calculator. 
	An LCD contains special crystals (covalent bonds?) that change 
	color when electricity flows through them. 
Keypad	Refers to the keys on the calculator 
Linkport	Refers to the 2.5mm jack on the bottom of the calculator where 
	the TI-Graphlink plugs in. 
Sprite	A Sprite is a 'grid' of bytes that represent an image or picture. 
	The typical size of a sprite is 8 pixels by 8 pixels, and you need 
	8 bytes for this sprite (8 pixels/byte). Sprites are mainly used in 
	games. For example, in SQRXZ, the bug is a sprite, and in frogger, 
	the frog is the sprite. 
Assembly Language	A low-level language that deals with programming the 
	CPU directly. 
CPU	Central Processing Unit, the main processor in a computer. The Z80 
	is the CPU of the calculator 
Ram Page	On the TI-86, refers to a 16K page of memory. There is one 
	static ram page and seven swappable ram pages. 
Static	Means it doesn't change, stays the same, set 
Swappable RAM Page	A RAM Page that is located in memory but has to be 
	loaded (swapped) into a 16K region (generally $8000) in order to 
	be used. 
Swappable ROM Page	A ROM Page that is located in memory but has to be 
	loaded (swapped) into a l6K region (generally $4000) in order to 
	be used. 
RAM	Random Access Memory - Memory that can be accessed freely and 
	written to freely. The RAM needs constant power to hold it's 
	information. 
ROM	Read Only Memory - The ROM never changes, and cannot be changed. 
	The ROM holds all the system data and the actual operating system. 
	This is the stuff that cannot be erased, no matter how many 
	batteries you take out ;) 
TI-OS	Texas Instruments Operating System - Refers to the Operating 
	System of the calculator, the actual parsing and math utilities 
	and the normal functionality of the calculator. 
Stack	A section in memory that is designed like a 'stack' of plates. 
	This is a LIFO structure, Last In First Out, meaning that when 
	you PUSH a byte on the stack the stack growns downward, and when 
	you POP a byte from the stack, the stack grows upward. The byte 
	POPed is the last byte PUSHed. 
User Memory	Memory in the Calculator between RAM pages 2 - 7 that holds 
	variables (data types) such as programs, strings, matrix's, etc 
VAT	Also called Symbol Table - Variable Allocation Table. The VAT is 
	the combination of variable names and a 24-bit pointer to the 
	variable data. The VAT is like a FAT that can be used to find 
	data-types such as programs and strings. It starts at the end 
	($8fff) and grows backward. first is a sign byte, then there is a
	24 bit pointer to the data of the variable, then a one byte flag byte (not used by us), then the length 
	of the name (byte), then the actual characters (as many as there 
	are in the name. Then
	the next byte is the sign byte of the next symbol and so on.
Variable	Also called Symbol - A variable is a broad term that describes 
	a data type. A variable has a 'header' that describes a data-type 
	in the VAT, and the VAT contains a 24-bit absolute pointer to the 
	actual variable data. 
Variable Data	Sort of means data type - The Variable Data is the data 
	type itself and the contents of this data type. The Variable Data 
	also may have a header of it's own. For example, if the variable 
	was a Program then the first two bytes of the variable data would 
	be the size. The next two bytes would be the token 'AsmPgrm' and 
	then the rest of the bytes would be the actual program itself. 
Variable Name	Outside of the VAT there needs to be a way to refer to a 
	variable. The TI-86 uses a variable name, which is 10 bytes of data 
	(stored in the OP registers, i.e. OP1) that is used to refer to a 
	variable. You need a variable name if you are going to search for a 
	variable, create a variable, or delete a variable. 
Pointer	A pointer is a general term that means one memory location holds 
	the address of another memory location. You can then use the first 
	memory address to indirectly access the second. 
Flag	A flag is a bit in memory that is reserved for indicating the 
	status of something on the TI-86. All flags are stored in the bit 
	flag area accessed off of IY. A flag could be used to indicate, 
	for example, whether to display text as white over black or black 
	over white. 
Label	A label is an assembly directive (meaning an addition to the 
	assembler) that mainly is a simple method of holding an address. 
	Labels are 'nicknames' for a memory location and are used for 
	convience when using the JR, JP, or DJNZ instructions. 
Grayscale	A technique that makes the LCD screen display multiple shades 
	of gray. The LCD screen can normally only display two shades (ON 
	or OFF), but grayscale uses rapid buffer exchange 200 times per 
	second to trick your eyes into thinking there are more than one 
	shade of gray. Grayscale can work with 4 or 8 shades, although 8 
	shades sometimes can flicker. 
Zilog	Company that made the z80 microprocessor. 
z80	A cool 8-bit processor designed for small computer systems. This 
	processor has speeds up to 20 MHZ and has an address bus of 16-bits, 
	meaning it can address up to 64K of memory at one time. The TI-86 
	uses a 6 Mhz z80. Systems that use the Z80 include the Gameboy, 
	TRS-80, and Commodore 128.